SNAPPEROO(1)                General Commands Manual               SNAPPEROO(1)



NAME
       snapperoo  -  A  small,  bare essentials utility for taking Btrfs snap‐
       shots.


SYNOPSIS
       snapperoo [schedule]


DESCRIPTION
       snapperoo is designed to be the bare minimum required to  automatically
       take  Btrfs snapshots and delete old snapshots according to a retention
       policy.

       The volumes to be snapshotted, destination and retention  settings  are
       configured via a JSON file, for details of this see snapperoo(5).


INVOCATION
       snapperoo is designed to be invoked according to the desired schedules,
       with the current schedule being passed as a single argument.

       The scheduling of the snapshots is the responsibility of the job sched‐
       uler,  snapperoo  simply takes snapshots when requested and removes any
       that are deemed to be old.  This also allows snapperoo to be  triggered
       by  other  events, e.g.  package or configuration updates, using an ap‐
       propriately named "schedule".

       If snapperoo is invoked with no arguments then the schedule name  takes
       the  default  value of "manual".  This allows easy manual snapshotting,
       if desired.


SYSTEMD
       Templated Systemd units are included for scheduling  time  based  snap‐
       shots using Systemd.  Schedules are limited to time specifications that
       are supported by OnCalendar=, see systemd.timer(5) and systemd.time(7).

       These timers may be enabled using the command:

              systemctl enable snapperoo@weekly.timer
              systemctl enable snapperoo@monthly.timer

       This would allow weekly and monthly snapshots to be taken.


EXAMPLES
       Trigger "weekly" snapshotting and rotation:

              snapperoo weekly

       In order to ensure snapshotting functions  as  expected,  this  command
       should be called once per week by the job scheduling system of choice.


SEE ALSO
       snapperoo(5), btrfs-subvolume(8), systemd.timer(5), systemd.time(7)



                                                                  SNAPPEROO(1)
